Matthew Lim is a student pursuing a B.S. in Computer Science at the Georgia Institute of Technology, specializing in Artificial Intelligence and Modeling & Simulation. With a background in agent-based modeling, machine learning, and full‑stack development, he creates computational tools that help urban planners anticipate how city infrastructure and policy influence everyday life. He is also passionate about making these tools accessible, with experience working as a freelance website developer and producing several award-winning hackathon projects.

He participates in the vertically integrated laboratory “Surrogate Modeling for Urban Regeneration” (SMUR), where he leads a group of undergraduate students on the development of a data-driven agent-based model to predict neighborhood demographics in response to transportation infrastructure (e.g. the Atlanta Beltline), allowing urban planners to experiment with various "what-if" scenarios to test their designs.

His commitment to mentoring was recognized with the Outstanding Undergraduate Mentor Award from Georgia Tech’s Vertically Integrated Projects (VIP) Program for the 2024‑2025 academic year. Other notable work includes Buzzline, a Google Build-with-AI Challenge winning hackathon project which utilizes data produced by SMUR's PEI-mobility project. 

He believes that transparent, data‑driven simulations can facilitate and guide urban decision‑making by translating complex processes into easily-interpretable insights for both planners and communities. By bridging computer science, open-source urban data, and human‑centered design, he aims to equip stakeholders with efficient, high-resolution tools to realize the transition to "smart" cities.

After completing his undergraduate studies, Matthew Lim plans to advance his interest in simulations by modeling other phenomena, such as data-driven proprioception in robots and fluid dynamic/aerodynamic data analysis.
